## Q8: Generate N random numbers and sort using user choice (C)

### a. Introduction
Sorting is a fundamental method in DS to arraange the data in specific way as required. In this program, we have done the sorting of the elements that are randomly generated by the system itself within the bound of 1 to 1000. Random generation takes the system time as seed value to generate the random elements for the work.  There are multiple types of the sorting of which we have used as mentioned below. 
i. Bubble Sort.
ii. Merge Sort.
iii. Selection Sort.
iv. Insertion Sort.

### b. Data structure
This program uses arrays:
- arr[n] stores the random numbers and gets sorted.
- originalArr[n] stores a copy of the same numbers to show the list before sorting.

It also uses two counters:
- comparison counts how many comparisons are done.
- swap counts how many swaps/moves are done.

Random numbers are generated in range [1, 1000] using rand().

### c, Functions implemented and purpose
- merge(arr, l, m, r): combines two sorted parts of the array into one sorted part.
- mergeSort(arr, l, r): sorts the array using merge sort (divide and merge).
- bubbleSort(arr, n): sorts using bubble sort by swapping adjacent elements.
- selectionSort(arr, n): sorts by selecting the smallest element and placing it in correct position.
- insertionSort(arr, n): sorts by inserting each element into the correct position in the sorted part.
- printArray(arr, n): prints all elements of the array.

### d. How main() works
1. Takes N from user.
2. Generates N random integers and stores them in arr and originalArr.
3. Takes sorting choice (1 to 4).
4. Prints originalArr (before sorting).
5. Runs the selected sorting algorithm on arr.
6. Prints arr (after sorting).
7. Prints total comparisons and swaps.

### e. Sample output  
```
Enter the number of elements (N): 6
Choose the sorting algorithm:

Bubble Sort
Selection Sort
Insertion Sort
Merge Sort
Enter your choice: 3

Before sorting:
91 450 12 700 33 205
Using Insertion Sort
After sorting:
12 33 91 205 450 700
Total comparisons: 10
Total swap: 7
```
